Welcome to Conestone.
Here's Pastor Steve's message of the week.
But again, today we're headed back to the Book of Titus.
We've been here before.
We're going to be talking about grace and how God gives us.
He bestows us grace upon us at his pace, his tempo.
how he wants us to do things and how the grace of God, listen, can make tremendous changes in your life.
You ever really thought about how the grace of God has just impacted you?
I hope that you have.
I think of it often about how he's done it for me.
A few years ago, one of my first sermons as I was an associate pastor here was called Grace Changes Everything.
And I just, I always stand on that because it does grace is the common denominator of the Christian life, grace and faith and prayer and love.
All of these things that we talk about so often, but we have an overflowing grace that comes from the Lord.
And I get excited when I think about the grace that God has given me.
Listen, I would not be where I am today.
if it weren't for the grace of God.
Maybe you could say the same thing.
I believe that you can.
But he has blessed me way beyond anything that I could ever deserve.
I can't earn it.
There's nothing that I can do to merit his grace.
He just gives it to me.
Isn't that good to know that we serve a God that just gives us the grace?
He's given me favor when it was unmerited.
All I ever needed when
people know that I needed it.
What a blessing that is.
I can tell you that the grace of God has truly changed everything in my life.
Some of you may be sitting here right now remembering the times that this undeserved grace of God has has just made such a strong impact on you.
There have been times in our lives when we thought that we were at the end of the road.
But guess what happened?
God said, well, yeah, you might be at the end of that road.
My brother, I'm changing your direction.
You're going to go this way.
And it's his grace that puts us in the right lane.
There've been times in our lives when we thought all was lost because then we found the grace of Jesus Christ.
God's grace.
We can never understand it.
We can never return it to him, but we can bathe in it.
And why is that?
Because it is a gift that comes from him and we should bathe in that.
So again, Titus chapter two,
Verses 11 through 15.
If you found your place, please stand with me.
Amen.
You got to say, I got it.
Here's what it says.
Everybody say this with me for the grace.
That's good for the grace.
Just wanted you to hit grace for the grace of God has appeared that offers what?
Salvation to all people.
It teaches us to say no.
to ungodliness and worldly passions and to live self-controlled upright and godly lives in this present age while we're waiting for the blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, who is Jesus Christ.
What did he do?
He gave himself for us to redeem us from all wickedness and to purify for himself a people
that are his own eager to do what is good.
These then are the things you should teach.
Encourage and rebuke with all authority.
Do not let anyone despise you.
Let's pray together.
Lord, thank you again for this passage.
Thank you, Lord.
We know Paul was writing to Titus here.
We just are so thankful for this.
What we know is a pastoral epistle.
And Father, as we ponder these words today, we just pray, Father, that we will understand more about how Lord your grace impacts our life.
So will we give you thanks?
We just pray that this message will draw people closer to you.
We just pray that if there's someone that's here today that doesn't know you as their Lord and Savior, that today would be the day that they would forever change their life, repent of their sins and say, yes to Jesus.
So we thank you and we love you.
And it's in His name we pray.
Amen.
You may be seated.
Thank you.
Now for me, I love that in this verse Paul equated the grace of God to the salvation that can only come from one place.
And that is the blood of Jesus Christ.
That's where it comes from.
The emphasis on this section is all about the grace of God.
When I think of God's grace,
I think about the most expensive gift that I could ever receive and then multiply the numbers that I can't understand.
Cause we can't figure this out.
We don't know why he is so grace giving to us.
He's God.
He just does it.
He gives us the grace that we need.
The fact is we just cannot understand it.
Our finite minds can't compute it.
We want to believe that we don't receive what we don't deserve.
Of course, this is worldly thinking.
It's not spiritual thinking as we think of it that way.
We don't deserve his grace, but yet we receive grace all the time, all the time we receive his grace.
And most of you know this, but I spent 25 years in the loan business, making loans, collecting loans.
There were companies that would give you a grace period if you notice that you were going to be a few days late on your payment.
This grace period would give the customers a period of time before there was a penalty for being late.
It's pretty standard practice.
And we've also spoken before about our parental relationships, us and our children.
Oftentimes we give our kids a little grace if we feel like they might need a little grace.
In these examples, we didn't have to give this grace, but we chose to give this grace out of sheer goodness, didn't we?
It wasn't deserved.
In fact, in some cases, there are violations that certainly don't merit grace at all.
Out of the love and the goodness of our hearts, we often give grace even when it isn't merited.
So through the conclusion of this chapter, as we have read this this morning, I believe that Paul was giving Titus three different aspects of the grace of God.
And we're going to look at these.
And I believe that these will help us to better understand what true grace and the true grace of God actually really is.
First, he explains to us that through his grace, God redeems us.
He says that He redeems us.
As Paul is equating grace to salvation, we can see here that as people, no matter who we are, there's nothing that we can do to ever save ourselves.
No matter what walk of life we're in, what our social status is, where our church membership is, whatever job it is that we might have, who our family is, we must all rely on the redemptive grace
that comes from God through Jesus Christ.
This is the only way of salvation.
Again, we don't deserve it.
There's nothing that we can do that would ever help us to earn it.
We can't give our grace to someone else.
We can't pass it down the line.
It only comes from the Almighty God.
It's God's grace that brings salvation to anyone who doesn't know Jesus Christ.
is their Lord and as their savior.
We so many times over the years, we sing a hymn called amazing grace.
I once was lost, but now I'm found was blind.
But now I see this is through the amazing grace of the Lord.
This amazing grace that we sing about has redeemed us.
Everybody say redeem.
It is bought us with a wage.
that we didn't have to pay.
Jesus paid it.
You see, God's grace was not discovered by sinners.
God's grace was not discovered by you.
It wasn't discovered by me.
God's grace appeared through the life, the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ.
And we could see that God made his salvation available to us and to all people.
Look with me at 1st Timothy chapter two.
Verses three through six, and I have this on the screen for you.
It reads this way.
This is good and pleases God, our savior, who wants all people to be saved and to come to a knowledge of the truth.
For there's one God and one mediator between God and mankind and the man Christ Jesus who gave himself as a ransom for all people.
This has now been witnessed to at the proper time.
You see, God has redeemed us through the ransom that was paid by Jesus when he died on the cross.
You and I are the sinners who are in bondage of our sin.
The ransom on our heads is death, but Jesus paid that ransom.
Why?
So that we wouldn't have to.
Jesus redeemed us.
He rescued us.
Let me give you that word.
We have been rescued.
by paying our ransom for us.
There's a universal need for salvation because it helps us to understand more about that through Jesus.
Let's look at verse 14 of our text again.
It says, who gave himself for us to redeem us from all wickedness and to purify for himself a people that are his very own eager to do what is good.
This verse tells us that Christ gave himself
for us.
He became our substitute.
Everybody say substitute.
1 Peter chapter 2 verse 24 says this.
He himself bore our sins in his body on the cross so that we might die to sin and live for righteousness and by his wounds you have been healed.
You see we're all slaves to sin.
But the redeeming blood of Jesus Christ on the cross has broken those chains, folks.
And listen, His blood has set us free.
We are set free.
We have been redeemed from all iniquity.
We're no longer a slave to the sin.
If we believe on the name of Jesus Christ, if you've been redeemed, then sin can no longer be the master of your life.
Why?
Because Jesus is the master of your life.
by the redeeming power of the blood of the lamb.
You've been set free.
The Bible says you have been set free indeed.
Aren't you glad today that your sin debt has been paid in full?
If you know Jesus as your personal savior, then listen, your sin debt is paid.
The sins of yesterday.
I like to put it this way.
The sins of yesterday are null and void.
They no longer apply.
You have a brand new lease on life and that lease has no expiration date.
The grace of God through Jesus Christ will redeem you from all of your sin.
If you will accept him as your Lord and your savior, not only does God freely give us redeeming grace.
He also gives us a grace that refines us or reforms us.
This same grace that comes from the Lord that refines us also reforms us.
It redeems us.
It, it refines us.
It reforms us.
However you want to say that God's grace not only changes our position by freeing us from the slavery of sin.
It also reforms us.
How does it do that?
Well, it changes our attitude towards sin.
It changes our appetites.
It changes our actions as we live our every day.
God's grace gives us ambition to serve the Lord in a powerful way.
God's grace takes us from being ungodly and puts us to being godly and living a godly life.
When God's grace reforms us or refines us, we get rid of the negative living.
We get rid of the ungodly living once and for all.
And then we begin to work toward living a godly positive life.
It's a journey.
It takes time.
This is not an overnight deal.
It's an everyday journey.
It takes commitment.
It takes commitment from all of us to do this.
It takes endurance.
It's a long race that we only win through the reform and the refinement of Jesus Christ.
1 John chapter two, verses 15 to 17 say this, it says,
Do not love the world or anything in the world.
If anyone loves the world, love for the father is not in them.
For everything in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes and the pride of life comes not from the father, but from the world.
The world and its desires pass away.
But whoever does the will of God lives forever.
Now these verses to me, that's a mouthful.
It's a lot there.
There's a lot of theology there, a lot of doctrine there, that we could spend a whole message talking about those few verses.
But through the reform of God's grace, we can deny the things of the world.
Don't you want to deny the things of the world?
Aren't you like me and you're tired of hearing this stuff?
We can deny the world.
We can deny the worldly lust that we see in the world with God's grace.
This scripture of passage this morning, scripture of this passage, the scripture tells us this morning that with God's grace, we can exude self control.
Do you see that?
We can exude restraint.
We can seek the Lord instead of seeking the world.
Now, I've heard many testimonies from Christians through the years that show their reformation.
It shows how they've been
refined it, they can tell their testimony as to what they once were, what their journey has been and where they are now in Christ.
We can see that.
We can see where they've been reformed.
I've heard many Christians talk about how they were addicted to substances.
I've talked with men and women who are in the prison system and they're paying for crimes that they committed who now are trusting Jesus as their savior.
refined, reformed.
I've heard testimony after testimony that says, I once was lost in sin as the old song says, but Jesus took me in.
Have a little talk with Jesus and he'll make you whole.
They tell me that God doesn't worry about what was in the past.
He's only interested in what's in my future with him.
I've heard him saying, I ain't who I used to be.
And I'm still working on who I'm going to be.
You ever heard that?
They've turned away from what the world has to offer.
They're trusting now in what it is that God has to offer.
There's been a change in their lives.
They've been refined.
They've been reformed by the grace of the Lord.
They're running their daily race down this path of godliness.
They become purified.
They become sanctified.
They have been set apart from their sin.
God has cleaned them from the inside out and they're not afraid to talk about that.
Folks, let me tell you that today, you as you sit here right now can be reformed by Jesus Christ.
You believe that?
You can be refined by him.
We have to live in this world, but we don't have to live of this world.
God's grace is saving grace will deliver you.
It will reform you.
God's grace will redeem you.
And also today, God's grace will also reward you.
The reward.
What is that?
It's the blessed hope of Jesus Christ.
Verse 13 says, while we wait for the blessed hope, the appearing of our great God and savior,
Jesus Christ.
You see, as Christians, what are we waiting for?
Well, we're waiting for the return of Jesus Christ.
That's where the hope is.
His return is our hope.
His return is our glory.
Christians should always be looking for the return of Jesus Christ.
One day we'll all see His face.
We should live our lives that way.
The reward of God's grace is an eternity
of being face to face with Jesus Christ.
Amen.
Your spiritual health, the health of God's church hinges on this.
It hinges on the belief of this gospel of Jesus Christ that we've been talking about this morning.
And look, we can't miss this.
If we miss this, people are going to live and they're going to die without Jesus.
People could completely miss the mark.
If you don't have this saving grace of Jesus Christ, listen, you're in danger right now of missing the mark, whether it's in this building, whether it's watching me live on Facebook or whether you're tuning in later, whether you're hearing this on a podcast somewhere, you need Jesus in your life.
Don't miss him.
Don't miss spending an eternity with Jesus.
Listen, it's harsh, but it's true to reject Jesus Christ.
by living separately from him means an eternity in the lake of fire.
A literal place, a place that we call hell.
This place that we call hell was not created for you.
It was created for the devil.
It was created for his angels.
The devil is doing everything that he can possibly do to keep you from experiencing the grace of God.
He doesn't want you to be redeemed by the blood of the lamb.
He doesn't want you to be reformed by living for Jesus.
He wants you to live like him and the things of the world.
He is not interested at all in God rewarding you.
Even right now, as I'm speaking to you, listen, if you've never accepted Jesus as your savior, Satan is doing everything that he possibly can, even right now to keep you from hearing this message.
So he works.
He doesn't want you to think that you have a way out of the sin that you're experiencing.
He wants you to think that whatever your sin is that's going on in your life is too bad for you to be redeemed.
You can't get out of it.
That's what he wants you to believe.
But listen, that's not what God's word says.
Romans 10 13 says that whoever, everybody say whoever, whoever, and who is that?
That's us.
Whoever, all of us, whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved.
Who are the whoever's us?
All of us.
We are all the whoever's.
It doesn't say that we have to be rich.
It doesn't say that we have to be something that we are not.
It doesn't say that we have to hold any high position.
It says that we are sinners.
Yes.
But we have a way out.
That's what it says.
It says in Romans.
Chapter 10, verse 9, that if we confess with our mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in our hearts, that God raised him from the dead, what?
We'll be saved.
It says we will be redeemed, reformed, and rewarded by the grace of God.
Every head bowed, every eye closed for just a minute.
I just want to ask you a question or two just straight out.
I want you to find some courage and answer these questions honestly.
If you're here today and you've never accepted Jesus Christ as your Savior, would you please just lift your hand?
No one's looking around.
Just me.
Me and the Lord.
This is you today, just lift your hand.
If you've never said yes to him, the first step to coming to Christ is admitting you're a sinner.
If you're a sinner without Christ this morning, would you put out all the distractions?
Just admit it.
There's no judgment here from me.
I just want to pray with you and show you how to come to know Jesus on a personal level.
This is you today.
Would you lift your hand if you've never asked Jesus into your heart?
Just slip your hand up right now.
Maybe you hear this morning, you are a Christian, but you have a friend.
Maybe you have a family member that needs Jesus.
If this is you, would you lift your hand?
someone in your life that you know of, that right now is dying and going to heaven.
I see those hands, thank you.
I want to pray for you, I want to pray for them.
Our altar is open and if you feel dead in a moment, you come and pray for them.
Just come this morning, leave them at the foot of the cross, let God do His work.
And lastly, let me ask you this today, if you're a Christian,
The things of the world just seem to have your number.
You got sin in your life.
You're having a hard time letting it go.
You're having a hard time living for Jesus because of the sin.
I want to pray for you.
Again, no one's looking around.
They're sinning your life that you're struggling with today.
Did you just lift your hand so that I can be in prayer for you?
Let's see those hands.
Thank you.
Folks, listen.
We're all in the same boat.
We all need Jesus, amen.
We need His strength.
We need His guidance.
We need everything that He will give us in our lives.
Let me encourage you today.
You leave your desires and all of your deeds with him this morning.
Right there from where you are.
I'm going to ask you now if you'll stand with me.
Just give it all to Jesus this morning.
You come as Suzanne plays.
Thank you for being here this morning.
Don't forget tonight's schedule.
We'll be here.
So, brother, y'all come.
Brother Rick, feel close.
Thank you for joining us today on the podcast and learning God's word together at Cornerstone Baptist Church.
To find out more about how to have a personal walk with Jesus, check out the contact page on our website at cbcakin.com.
We'd love to have you visit us at 100 Cornerstone Drive, Akin, South Carolina.
You're always welcome.
Don't hesitate to reach out.
God bless you and have a wonderful day.